Date :- 29-04-2021
Notes:
	AWS Cloud Practitioner exam requires skills and knowledge to effectively demonstrate and overall understanding of the AWS Cloud, independent of
	 specific technical roles. The certification exam can be taken at the test center or through online proctored exam.

	Cloud computing is the on demand delivery of IIT resources over the Internet with pay as you go price. Instead of buying online and 
	maintaining physical data centers and servers you can access the resources and services as needed from a cloud provider like Amazon Web Services.

	Different types of cloud service providers are :- AWS,GCP, IBM Cloud etc.

	AWS offers a wide range of services for every business whether it is small or large, starting with basic elements, like compute, storage, and 
	network security tools, through complex solutions like blockchain, machine learning, or artificial intelligence, and robot development platforms,
	 all the way through very specialized tool sets, like video production management systems, and orbital satellites you can rent by the minute.

	What is Client Server Model?
•	In computing, a client can be a web browser or a desktop application that interact or make request to computer servers a server can be services 
	such as Amazon EC2 a type of virtual server.
 
	There are three types of cloud computing deployment models:
•	Cloud-Based Deployment
•	On-Premises Deployment
•	Hybrid Deployment
	Some Benefits of using cloud computing:
•	only pay for the computing resources you use instead of investing heavily in data centers and servers before you know how you are going to use them.
•	It gives the flexibility to focus less on running and maintaining data centers and focus more on the applications and customers.
•	Increase the speed and agility because we can you quickly develop and deploy applications.
•	We can get global and online in minutes.
	What is Devops ? 
•	Devops is the practice of operations and development engineers practicing together in the enter service life cycle from design through the 
	development process to production support.
	The idea behind using the devops is to reduce the latency that arises during the software development life cycle such as when a developer builts 
	an application and sends it for testing then the testing team does all the testing and may return with some errors. All of this process can take 
	some days or more. Which can lead to loss in business. Devops introduces a new practice where these development and operations team work together 
	allowing the flexibility to develop and test simultaneously and make the changes and improvise accordingly. which saves a lot of time.

Date : 30-04-2021
Notes:

1. Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) provides secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud as Amazon EC2 instances.
 
2. Amazon EC2 instance types:-
	2.1 General Purpose Instance :- General purpose instances provide a balance of compute,memory and networking resources.
		We can use them for different purposes such as applications servers, gaming servers, backend servers for 
		enterprise applications, small and medium databases.
	2.2 Compute optimized instances :- Compute optimized instances are ideal for compute-bound applications that benefit from
		high-performance processors. Like general purpose instances, you can use compute optimized instances for worloads
		such as web, application and gaming servers.
	2.3 Memory optimized instances :- Memory optimized instances are designed to deliver fast performance for worloads that process large
		datasets in memory.
	2.4 Accelerated computing instances :- Accelerated computing instances use hardware accelerators, or coprocessors, to perform some 
		functions more efficiently than is possible in software running on CPUs. Examples of these functions include 
		graphics processing, and data pattern matching.
	2.5 Storage Optimized instances:- Storage optimized instances are designed for workloads that require high, sequential read 
		and write access to large datasets on local storage. Examples of workloads suitable for storage optimized instances
		 include distributed file systems, data warehousing applications.


3. Amazon EC2 Pricing :- With Amazon EC2, you pay only for the compute time that you use. Amazon EC2 offers a variety of pricing options 
	for different use cases.
	3.1 On-Demand :- On-Demand Instances are ideal for short-term, irregular workloads that cannot be interrupted. No upfront costs
		 or minimum contracts apply. The instances run continuously until you stop them, and you pay for only the compute time you use.
	3.2 Amazon EC2 Savings Plans :- AWS offers Savings Plans for several compute services, including Amazon EC2. Amazon EC2 Savings 
		Plans enable you to reduce your compute costs by committing to a consistent amount of compute usage for a 1-year or 3-year term.
		 This term commitment results in savings of up to 72% over On-Demand costs.
	3.3 Reserved Instances :- Reserved Instances are a billing discount applied to the use of On-Demand Instances in your account. 
		You can purchase Standard Reserved and Convertible Reserved Instances for a 1-year or 3-year term, and Scheduled 
		Reserved Instances for a 1-year term. You realize greater cost savings with the 3-year option.
	3.4 Spot Instances :- Spot Instances are ideal for workloads with flexible start and end times, or that can withstand interruptions.
		 Spot Instances use unused Amazon EC2 computing capacity and offer you cost savings at up to 90% off of On-Demand prices.
	3.5 Dedicated Hosts :- Dedicated Hosts are physical servers with Amazon EC2 instance capacity that is fully dedicated to your use. 

4. Scalability of EC2 :- AWS provides a special feature for scalability issues i.e Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling.

5. When you create an Auto Scaling group, you can set the minimum number of Amazon EC2 instances. The minimum capacity is the 
	number of Amazon EC2 instances that launch immediately after you have created the Auto Scaling group. In this example, the Auto Scaling group
 	has a minimum capacity of one Amazon EC2 instance.
	Next, you can set the desired capacity at two Amazon EC2 instances even though your application needs a minimum of a single Amazon EC2 instance to run.
	Remember If you do not specify the desired number of Amazon EC2 instances in an Auto Scaling group, the desired capacity defaults to your minimum capacity.
	The third configuration that you can set in an Auto Scaling group is the maximum capacity. For example, you might configure the Auto Scaling group to 
	scale out in response to increased demand, but only to a maximum of four Amazon EC2 instances.

6. Elastic Load Balancer :- Elastic Load Balancing is the AWS service that automatically distributes incoming application traffic across multiple resources,
	 such as Amazon EC2 instances. 

7. A load balancer acts as a single point of contact for all incoming web traffic to your Auto Scaling group. This means that as you add or remove 
	Amazon EC2 instances in response to the amount of incoming traffic, these requests route to the load balancer first. Then, the requests spread across
	 multiple resources that will handle them. For example, if you have multiple Amazon EC2 instances, Elastic Load Balancing distributes the workload across
	 the multiple instances so that no single instance has to carry the bulk of it.

8. Monolithic Applications(Bad Approach for general purpose) :- Suppose that you have an application with tightly coupled components. These components might 
	include databases, servers, the user interface, business logic, and so on. This type of architecture can be considered a monolithic application. 
	In this approach to application architecture, if a single component fails, other components fail, and possibly the entire application fails.

9. Microservices(Good Approach for general purpose) :- In a microservices approach, application components are loosely coupled. In this case, if a 
	single component fails, the other components continue to work because they are communicating with each other. 
	The loose coupling prevents the entire application from failing. 
	To help maintain application availability when a single component fails, you can design your application through a microservices approach.

 




